<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?> <!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC
"-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"[
<!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/brand.dtd" >
%brandDTD; ] >

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"> <head>
<title>Creating Web Pages with &brandShortName;</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="chrome://help/skin/helpFileLayout.css"/>
</head>

<body>
#include topnav.inc

<div id="contentsBox">In this section:
  <a href="composer_help.xhtml#starting_a_new_page">Starting a New
  Page</a>

  <a href="formatting_webpages.xhtml">Formatting
  Your Web Pages</a>

  <a href="css.xhtml">Using Style Sheets to Style Your Web Pages</a>

  <a href="tables.xhtml">Adding Tables to Your Web Page</a>

  <a href="images.xhtml">Adding Pictures (Images) to Your Web Page</a>

  <a href="toc.xhtml">Working with Table of Contents on Your Web
  Page</a>

  <a href="templates.xhtml">Working With Templates </a>

  <a href="page_properties.xhtml">Setting Page Properties</a>

  <a href="links.xhtml">Creating Links in &brandShortName;</a>

  <a href="customize.xhtml">Customizing &brandShortName;</a>

</div>

<h2 id="using_style_sheets_for_your_web_pages">Using Style Sheets for
Your Web Pages</h2>

<h3 id="using_cascade_style_sheets">Using Cascade Style Sheets</h3>

<p>Cascade Style Sheets(CSS) can be used to style an HTML document in
three ways:</p>
<ol>
  <li>Using inline styles.</li>

  <li>Using internal style sheet.</li>

  <li>Using external style sheets.</li>
</ol>

<p>&brandShortName; has an inbuilt style sheet editor called
<strong>CaScadeS</strong>. CaScadeS can be used to produce either an
internal style sheet or an external one. As opposed to inline styles,
internal or external style sheets help to keep the content and style
information separate.</p>

<p>To style the html document you are editing, CaScadeS can be started
by clicking on Tools and choosing CSS Editor. CaScadeS allows two
modes of style sheet editing:</p>

<ol>
  <li><strong>Beginner Mode</strong>: This mode allows to create
  rules associated to class selectors or type element selectors.</li>

  <li><strong>Expert Mode</strong>: This mode allows to create rules
  without any restriction.</li>
</ol>

<p>In case there is no style sheet, a new style sheet will be
automatically created.</p>

<p class="returnToSection">[ <a
href="#using_style_sheets_for_your_web_pages">Return to beginning of
section</a> ]</p>

<h3 id="creating_style_sheets_with_nvu">Creating Style
Sheets with &brandShortName;</h3>

<p>Using CaScadeS, one can create either internal style sheets or
external style sheets. To create an internal style sheet:</p>
<ol>
  <li>Click on the Style elt. button
  <ul>
    <li>(Optional) Fill in Media list and Title information for the
    style sheet.</li>
  </ul>
  </li>

  <li>Click on Create Stylesheet.</li>
</ol>

<p>To create an external stylesheet:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Click on the Link elt. button</li>

  <li>Fill in the URL of the stylesheet in the right pane. A new file
  will be created on the local filesystem, if it doesnot already exist.

  <ul>
    <li>(Optional) Fill in Media list and Title informationfor the style sheet.</li>
  </ul>
  </li>

  <li>Check the "check to create alternate stylesheet" if this is an
  alternate one.</li>
</ol>

<p><strong>Tip:</strong> Always save the html document before
attaching local style sheet. Also, save document immediately before closing
the CSS editor.</p>

<p><strong>Tip:</strong> Use Refresh button in the left pane, if
stylesheet is not immediately downloaded.</p>

<p class="returnToSection">[ <a
href="#using_style_sheets_for_your_web_pages">Return to beginning of
section</a> ]</p>

<h3 id="creating_rules_for_stylesheets">Creating Rules for
Stylesheets</h3>

<p>After creating one or more stylesheets for the html document, rules
can be created for each stylesheet individually. To use a particular
stylesheet for creating or modifying rules, highlight the stylesheet
in the left pane by clicking with left mouse button. The right pane
will show the detials of the stylesheet in the General Tab. To create
new rules:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Click on the Rule button in the left pane.</li>

  <li>Right pane shows options as to what kind of rule to
  create. Choose one of:

  <ul>
    <li>named style (enter class name below)</li>

    <li>style applied to all elements of type (enter type
    below)</li>

    <li>style applied to all elements matching the following
    selector</li>

  </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Fill in the name of the rule.</li>

  <li>Click on Create Style Rule button.</li>
</ol>

<p>Rules can be defined using the styling tabs (Text, Background,
Border, Box and Aural) in the right pane. To see all the definitions
of a style rule, highlight the rule in the left pane and click on
"General" tab in the right pane. The "General" tab shows all
definitions currently applied to the rule.</p>

<p class="returnToSection">[ <a
href="#using_style_sheets_for_your_web_pages">Return to beginning of
section</a> ]</p>

<p>[<a href="tables.xhtml">Next</a>] [<a href="formatting_webpages.xhtml">Previous</a>]</p>

  <div class="copyrightBox"><em>20 June 2005</em></div>

<p>Copyright &copy; 2004-2005 Contributors to the Nvu
Help Documentation Project.</p>

</body>
</html>