<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?> <!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC
"-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"[
<!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/brand.dtd" >
%brandDTD; ] >

<!--
Original Author:
"KDS Sahambi" <ksahambi AT yahoo DOT com>
Contributor(s):
-->

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"> <head>
  <title>Customizing &brandShortName;</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="chrome://help/skin/helpFileLayout.css"/>
</head>

<body>

#include topnav.inc

  <div id="contentsBox">In this section:
  <a href="#toolbar_customization">Toolbar Customization</a>
  <a href="#enhancing_nvu_functionality">Enhancing &brandShortName; Functionality</a>
  </div>

  <h1 id="customizing_toolbars">Customizing &brandShortName;</h1>

  <h2 id="toolbar_customization">Toolbar Customiation</h2>

  <p>&brandShortName; has toolbars which can be customized by the user
  to suite their likings. The users can keep their most frequently used
  buttons on the toolbars and hide those rarely used in effect making it
  easier to use, and giving the users the satisfaction to tailor the
  look of &brandShortName; according to their preferences.</p>

  <h3 id="how_to_customize_toolbars">How to Customize Toolbars</h3>

  <p>To open the toolbar customize window, Click on <span
  class="menuPath">View > Show/Hide > Customize Toolbar</span> and
  select the toolbar you want to customize. Or you can right-click with
  the mouse on the toolbar you want to edit and select "Customize
  Toolbar".</p>

  <p>To customize the toolbars</p>

  <ul>
    <li>You can click-and-drag a button, separator, flexible space, or
    space item to the toolbar where you want to add that item.</li>

    <li>You can drag items (button, space, flexible space or separator)
    from the toolbar and drop them back in customizing window.</li>

    <li>You can also change the look of the toolbar buttons (Main Toolbar)
    by either selecting Icons and Text, Icons or only Text to be
    displayed.</li>

  </ul>

  <p class="returnToSection">[ <a href="#customizing_toolbars">Return to
  beginning of section</a> ]</p>

  <h2 id="enhancing_nvu_functionality">Enhancing &brandShortName;
  Functionality</h2>

  <p>&brandShortName; has an inbuilt mechanism to enhance its already
  powerful functions. New functionality can be added to &brandShortName;
  by adding <em>extensions</em>. Extentions are small programs which
  give users new features or functions when installed in
  &brandShortName;. Users can choose to install the extensions they
  want. Thus extensions allow users to have a customized installation of
  &brandShortName;. To install an extension:</p>

  <ul> <li>Download the extention to your computer and save it in a
  convenient location. Most of the extensions can be downloaded from
  &brandShortName; web site.</li>

  <li>Open <strong>Extension Manager</strong>(EM) by clicking on <span
  class="menuPath">Tools > Extensions</span>. The EM will list all the
  installed extensions (if any).</li>

  <li>Click on <em>Install</em> button to install the extension you just
  downloaded.</li>

  <li>Select the extension by browsing to it in the file system browser
  window and click on the <em>Open</em> button.</li>

  <li>Click the <em>Install Now</em> button in the Software Installation
  window.</li>

  <li>After installation in complete, restart &brandShortName; to start
  using the features added by the newly installed extension.</li>

  </ul>

  <p>You should regularly check for updates for the installed
  extensions with the Extension Manager. Updates usually improve the
  features offered by the extensions and resolve problems in older
  versions.</p>

<p>[<a href="links.xhtml">Previous</a>]</p>

  <div class="copyrightBox"><em>20 June 2005</em></div>

  <p>Copyright &copy; 2004-2005 Contributors to the Nvu Documentation
  Project.</p>

</body>
</html>