<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?> <!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC
"-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"[
<!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/brand.dtd" >
%brandDTD; ] >

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"> <head>
<title>Creating Web Pages with &brandShortName;</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="chrome://help/skin/helpFileLayout.css"/>
</head>

<body>
#include topnav.inc

<div id="contentsBox">In this section:
  <a href="composer_help.xhtml#starting_a_new_page">Starting a New Page</a>

  <a href="formatting_webpages.xhtml">Formatting Your Web Pages</a>

  <a href="css.xhtml">Using Style
  Sheets to Style Your Web Pages</a>

  <a href="tables.xhtml">Adding Tables to
  Your Web Page</a>

  <a href="images.xhtml">Adding Pictures
  (Images) to Your Web Page</a>

  <a
  href="toc.xhtml">Working with
  Table of Contents on Your Web Page</a>

  <a href="templates.xhtml">Working With Templates
  </a>

  <a href="page_properties.xhtml">Setting Page
  Properties</a>

  <a href="links.xhtml">Creating Links in
  &brandShortName;</a>

  <a href="customize.xhtml">Customizing &brandShortName;</a>

</div>

<h2 id="setting_page_properties">Setting Page Properties</h2>

<h3 id="setting_page_properties_and_meta_tags">Setting Page Properties
and Meta Tags</h3>

<p>Use the Page Properties dialog box to enter properties such as the
title, author, and description of the document you're currently
working on. This information is useful if you plan to use the page on
a web site, since search engines use this type of information to index
your page. You can view this information from the browser window by
opening the View menu and choosing Page Info.</p>

<ol> 
  <li>Open the Format menu and choose Page Title and
  Properties.</li>

  <li>Edit any of the following properties:</li>

  <li style="list-style-type: none; list-style-position: outside;
      list-style-image: none;"> <ul> <li><strong>Title</strong>: Type the
      text you want to appear as the window title when someone views the
      page through a browser. This is how most web search tools locate web
      pages, so choose a title that conveys what your page is about.</li>

      <li><strong>Author</strong>: Type the name of the person who created
      the document. This information is helpful to readers who locate the
      document by using a web search tool to search on name.

      <blockquote> <p><strong>Tip</strong>: If you enter the Author
      name in &brandShortName;'s <a
      href="preferences.xhtml#preferences_new_page_settings">preferences</a>,
      then you won't have to enter it each time you create a new
      page.</p> </blockquote> </li>

      <li><strong>Description</strong>: Enter a brief description of the
      document's contents.</li>
      </ul>
  </li>
</ol>

<p class="returnToSection">[ <a href="#setting_page_properties">Return
to beginning of section</a> ]</p>

<h3 id="setting_page_colors_and_backgrounds">Setting Page Colors and
Backgrounds</h3>

<p>You can change the background color or specify a background image
for the page you're currently working on. These choices affect the way
text and links in your page appear to people viewing the page through
a browser.</p>

<p>To set the colors and background for the current page, begin from
the &brandShortName; window:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Open the Format menu and choose Page Colors and
  Background.</li>

  <li>Edit any of the following properties:</li>

  <li style="list-style-type: none; list-style-position: outside;
      list-style-image: none;"> <ul> <li><strong>Reader's default
      colors</strong>: Select this if you want your page to use the color
      settings from the viewer's browser for text and links.</li>

      <li><strong>Use custom colors</strong>: Select this if you want to
      specify the colors of text and links. For each element, select a color
      from the drop-down list. Sample output for each type of link appears
      in the pane on the right.</li>

      <li><strong>Background image</strong>: Select this if you want the
      background of your page to be an image. Type the name of the image
      file or click Choose File to locate the image file on your hard drive
      or network.

      <p><strong>Note</strong>: Background images are tiled and override
      background color selections.</p> </li>

      <li><strong>URL is relative to page location</strong>: If checked,
      &brandShortName; converts the URL to be relative to the page's
      location. This is especially useful if you plan to publish your pages
      on a web server so that others can view them.

      <p>Using relative URLs allows you to keep all your linked files in the
      same place relative to each other, regardless of their location on
      your hard disk or a web server.</p>

      <p>Deselecting this option causes &brandShortName; to convert the URL
      to a full (absolute) URL. You typically use absolute URLs when linking
      to images on other web servers (not stored locally on your hard
      disk).</p>

      <p>If you have unsaved changes, you must first save the page in order
      to enable this checkbox.</p>
      </li>
      </ul>
  </li>
</ol>

<p><strong>Note</strong>: To apply additional attributes or JavaScript
events, click Advanced Edit to display the <a
href="#using_the_advanced_property_editor">Advanced Property
Editor</a>.</p>

<p>You can also set the <a
href="preferences.xhtml#preferences_new_page_settings">default page background
and colors</a> for every new page you create in &brandShortName;.</p>

<p class="returnToSection">[ <a href="#setting_page_properties">Return
to beginning of section</a> ]</p>

  <div class="copyrightBox"><em>20 June 2005</em></div>

<p>[<a href="links.xhtml">Next</a>] [<a href="templates.xhtml">Previous</a>]</p>

<p>Copyright &copy; 2004-2005 Contributors to the Nvu
Help Documentation Project.</p>

</body>
</html>