<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?> <!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC
"-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"[
<!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/brand.dtd" >
%brandDTD; ] >

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"> <head>
<title>Creating Web Pages with &brandShortName;</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="chrome://help/skin/helpFileLayout.css"/>
</head>

<body>
#include topnav.inc

<div id="contentsBox">In this section:
  <a href="composer_help.xhtml#starting_a_new_page">Starting a New
  Page</a>

  <a href="formatting_webpages.xhtml">Formatting Your Web Pages</a>

  <a href="css.xhtml">Using Style Sheets to Style Your Web Pages</a>

  <a href="tables.xhtml">Adding Tables to Your Web Page</a>

  <a href="images.xhtml">Adding Pictures (Images) to Your Web Page</a>

  <a href="toc.xhtml">Working with Table of Contents on Your Web
  Page</a>

  <a href="templates.xhtml">Working With Templates </a>

  <a href="page_properties.xhtml">Setting Page Properties</a>

  <a href="links.xhtml">Creating Links in &brandShortName;</a>

  <a href="customize.xhtml">Customizing &brandShortName;</a>

</div>

<h2 id="working_with_templates">Working With Templates</h2>

<p>HTML templates are useful in cases where the author has to create
several pages which have similar design but different content. With
&brandShortName; you can design your own templates and use them as a basis for your
web pages.</p>

<h3 id="creating_a_template">Creating a Template</h3>

<ol>
  <li>To create a template:
  <ul>
    <li>Click on <span class="menPath">File > New</span>, or click on
    the arrow besides "New" button and select "More Options"</li>
    <li>Select <strong>Blank Template</strong> and click on "Create</li>
  </ul></li>
  <li>Add and format the content which will remain the same in every
  page with same methods used to edit normal text in a web page.</li>
  <li>For the content which will be different in the web pages,
  Editable Area can be inserted by clicking on Insert > Templates >
  Editable Area. Options available for an editable area are:
  <ul>
    <li>Area is Optional</li>
    <li>Area is Repeatable</li>
    <li>Area is Movable</li>
  </ul></li>
  <li>Save the file as an .mzt Template file.</li>
</ol>

<p><strong>Tip</strong>: You can Remove an editable area or make an
area editable using the status bar. For details refer <a
href="#using_status_bar_for_formatting_your_web_page">Using Status Bar
for Formatting Your Web Page</a>.</p>

<p class="returnToSection">[ <a href="#working_with_templates">Return
to beginning of section</a> ]</p>

<h3 id="using_a_template">Using a Template</h3>

<p>To use a Template for authoring web pages:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Click on <span class="menuPath">File > Open</span> or use
  keyboard shortcut "Ctrl+N"</li>
  <li>Select the option "A New Document based on a Template" and
  choose the template to use by clicking on "Choose File"</li>
  <li>Click on <span class="menuPath">Create</span></li>
  <li>Edit the content in the editable areas.</li>
  <li>Save the file as an <i>html</i> document.</li>
</ol>

<p><strong>Tip</strong>: Click on <span class="menuPath">Edit > Detach
From Template</span> to detach a document from its template.</p>

<p><strong>Tip</strong>: Transformation of existing document into a
template and vice-versa can be achieved by checking(unchecking) the
"Templates" option in Format > Page Title and Properties.</p>

<p class="returnToSection">[ <a href="#working_with_templates">Return
to beginning of section</a> ]</p>

<p>[<a href="page_properties.xhtml">Next</a>] [<a href="toc.xhtml">Previous</a>]</p>

  <div class="copyrightBox"><em>20 June 2005</em></div>

<p>Copyright &copy; 2004-2005 Contributors to the Nvu
Help Documentation Project.</p>

</body>
</html>
