<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?> <!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC
"-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"[
<!ENTITY % brandDTD SYSTEM "chrome://global/locale/brand.dtd" >
%brandDTD; ] >

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"> <head>
<title>Creating Web Pages with &brandShortName;</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="chrome://help/skin/helpFileLayout.css"/>
</head>

<body>
#include topnav.inc

<div id="contentsBox">In this section:
  <a href="composer_help.xhtml#starting_a_new_page">Starting a New
  Page</a>

  <a href="formatting_webpages.xhtml">Formatting Your Web Pages</a>

  <a href="css.xhtml">Using Style Sheets to Style Your Web Pages</a>

  <a href="tables.xhtml">Adding Tables to Your Web Page</a>

  <a href="images.xhtml">Adding Pictures (Images) to Your Web Page</a>

  <a href="toc.xhtml">Working with Table of Contents on Your Web
  Page</a>

  <a href="templates.xhtml">Working With Templates </a>

  <a href="page_properties.xhtml">Setting Page Properties</a>

  <a href="links.xhtml">Creating Links in &brandShortName;</a>

  <a href="customize.xhtml">Customizing &brandShortName;</a>

</div>

<h2 id="working_with_table_of_contents_on_your_web_page">Working with
Table of Contents on Your Web Page</h2>

<h3 id="adding_table_of_contents_to_your_web_page">Adding Table of
Contents to Your Web Page</h3>

<p>For an html document having different sections, e.g. an article
with sections and subsections and headings for each section and
subsection, it becomes difficult to navigate if all the text is in a
single file. To enable easy navigation of different sections, a Table
of Contents (TOC) can be generated easily with &brandShortName;. To generate a TOC
for an html document:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Use the html heading tags (h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, and h6) to label
  different levels of sections and subsections in the document. And save
  the document.</li>

  <li>Click on <span class="menuPath"> Insert > Table of
  Contents</span> and choose "Insert". The TOC window will
  appear.</li>

  <li>Select the levels of headings used for differet sections and
  subsections in the document.</li>
  
  <li>Click "OK" to build the TOC.</li>
</ol>

<p>The TOC generated by default shows all entries as numbered and they
are anchored links to respective sections. Unchecking the "Number all
entries in table of contents" checkbox results in bulleted section
entries. And checking "Make the table of contents read only" results
in sections being simple text without anchors.</p>

<p class="returnToSection">[ <a
href="#working_with_table_of_contents_on_your_web_page">Return to
beginning of section</a> ]</p>

<h3 id="updating_or_removing_table_of_contents">Updating or Removing
Table of Contents</h3>

<p>In case the document is changed to add more sections or subsections
after building the TOC, it will not contain the new sections or
subsections. To add the newly added sections and subsections, click on
"Insert", then "Table of Contents" and choose "Update". The TOC will
be updated to show the new entries.</p>

<p>To remove the TOC altogether, click on "Insert", then "Table of
Contents" and choose "Remove". The TOC will be removed the html source
will be cleaned automatically of any code added when TOC built.</p>

<p class="returnToSection">[ <a
href="#working_with_table_of_contents_on_your_web_page">Return to
beginning of section</a> ]</p>

<p>[<a href="templates.xhtml">Next</a>] [<a href="images.xhtml">Previous</a>]</p>

  <div class="copyrightBox"><em>20 June 2005</em></div>

<p>Copyright &copy; 2004-2005 Contributors to the Nvu
Help Documentation Project.</p>

</body>
</html>